Developing Java GUI using
Swing
Exercise Book

Chapter 1 - Introduction to Swing
o Investigate the Swing Components:
Go to the directory JAVA_HOME\demo\jfc\SwingSet2
Launch the SwingSet2 executable jar file
Modify, Recompile, Run the "HelloWorld" example

Chapter 2 – Swing Fundamentals
We will build a single application, a Product Catalogue, throughout the
course exercises
Don't panic if you don't complete everything!
o Start creating a product catalogue application
Try out different fonts and colors by applying them to a JLabel
Add a border
Create and display a list of product items using JList
How does the UI respond to window resizing?

Chapter 3 – Containers, Components & Layout (1)
o For your product catalogue:
Add a button to remove an item from the catalogue
Add a button to insert an item into the catalogue
• When inserting a new product item, display a separate
dialog to acquire the name of the item

Synchronize the enabled state of the delete button with the
selection state of the list

Chapter 4 – Menus, Actions & Toolbars
o For your product catalogue, replace buttons with menu items and a
toolbar
Add File and Edit menus
Set some keyboard accelerators
Write some corresponding Action classes

Chapter 5 – UI Design
o Consider the UI Design of your product catalogue
What are the use cases? What do users want to do?
What are the frequent operations?
What are the different kinds of user?
What do they search by?
How can we minimize user-clicks/key presses?
Error handling?
Drill-down data?

Chapter 6 – Containers, Components & Layout (2)
o For your product catalogue:
Acquire a price as well as a name for each product and use a
custom rendering when displaying the JList
Switch to a JTable for the list of products
• Make the table sortable
Add a JSplitPane as a Two-Panel Selector
• Use a GridBagLayout for the content panel of the two-panel
selector

Chapter 7 – JFCUnit
o For your product catalogue:
Write some JFCUnit tests

To remove a product from the catalogue
To add a product to the catalogue
To check that selecting a product changes the display of the
two-panel selector

Chapter 8 – Branding & Customization
o For your product catalogue:
Add a splash screen
Change the logo, font, look and feel
Add an About Box
Set the menus to work in a different language
Make Look and Feel and language choice configurable, and use
the Java preferences framework to persist choices

Chapter 9 – Containers, Components & Layout (3)
o For your product catalogue:
Use JOptionPane to display input validation errors
Use JFileChooser to help select a photo image for each product
• Or use JFileChooser to help serialize the contents of your
product catalogue to a file

Chapter 10 – Printing & Data Transfer
o For your product catalogue:
Add the facility to print out the catalogue's contents
Accept a product's image in the product input form via drag and
drop
