Design Patterns Interbit Consulting & Training Ltd.
Code samples and excercises written by Shlomi Noach
Modified, Enhanced and adjusted for java 6.0 by Mark Veltzer

Singleton
Write a singleton in Java. Use code: dp.singleton.*

Builder
Given a text, we wish to read it word by word. Create two builders, one which creates a dictionary for these words (sorted alphabetically), another which creates a word counting map (for each word ­ the number of times it appears in the text). Use code: dp.builder.*

Prototype
Using the abstract factory presented in the course, create a prototype implementation, which replaces the abstract factory. Use code: dp.prototype.*

Bridge
We wish to implement a very simple database table. We define the DBTable interface (see code sample). We define the DataMap interface (see code sample). We require three different implementations for the DBTable interface: one which allows all operations; one which simulates a read-only table, where insert and update are illegal; one which simulates a table with a unique key, where an insert statement fails when the key already exists. We will use just one implementation for DataMap, one based on in-memory HashMap. Use code: dp.bridge.*

Composite
We will simulate an XML DOM structure. Create an XMLElement class, which represents an XML element. Such an element may contain textual data, as well as ordered children elements. Create a getChildren() method. Use code: dp.composite.MXLElement · + Builder: Create an XMLDocument, which contains an XML DOM tree, plus a version number. We wish to use the builder patterns so as to create formatted (beautified) versions of the document. Implement one such builder. Use code: dp.composite.*

Iterator
First, re-implement the XMLElement.getChildren() method so that it returns an iterator. Create a getChildren(String name) method which returns an iterator, listing only those children with the given name. Use code: dp.iterator.XMLElement

Command · We wish to implement a small fraction of a word-processor. Our mini-editor will be able to perform commands and undo them (defined by EditorCommand). Such a command may be an AppendCommand, which appends a given text to the end of the editor's current text, and a DeleteCommand, which removes a portion of the text, given a start and end positions. Implement these commands. Make sure you implement the undo() methods. Implement an undo/redo mechanism in the editor. Use code: dp.command.EditorCommand, dp.command.SimpleEditorToComplete, based on which students will solve the assignment.

State
Simulate a network device, defined by InetworkDevice. Create a NetworkDevice class, which uses the state pattern to show the three possible states: DISABLED, ENABLED, SUSPENDED. Define a reasonable transition matrix for the states. Use code: dp.state.*

Template method, Strategy, Observer
We wish to implement a logging system. We will demonstrate several solutions, based on different patterns. Our logger will logger receives a logMessage(subject, message) call and outputs a formatted line, in the form: date,subject,message. · Use the template method pattern to create two such loggers, one which outputs the data to standard console, another to file or standard error. Avoid code duplication. Use code: dp.templatemethod.* · Use the strategy pattern to refine the previous solution. How does using strategy refine the template method solution? Use code: dp.strategy.* · Use the observer pattern to enable multiple listeners for the log event. How does this solution refine the previous ones? Use code: dp.observer.logger.*

Visitor
Add the visitor pattern to our XMLElement class. Create two visitors: one which lists the names of courses Interbit provides, another which counts the XML tags. Use code: dp.visitor.*
